How the Internet works ?
Network: Two devices connect and communicate via wired or wireless connection
Network switch: Connects multiple devices and allows thems to communicate with each other.
Interconnected Network (InterNet): Network switchs connects with other Network switchs and two or more networks can be connected.

What is Web Server and How does it work ?
Server: A computer that runs applications and services and provides services to other computers( generally on the InterNet).
Clint: A computer which request services by user(generally over the InterNet).
Client-Server Model: Servers <---> InterNet <---> Clients.
100s of Servers stored in Data-Center.
Data center has continuous Power, Internet connection, Cooling.
Server Hardware: Physically touchable and dificult to change, as we need to physically need to replace. 
Server Software: Code runs on server. Easy to change.
Web-Server: a service software which includes functions like:
  - webisite storage and administration, 
  - data storage, 
  - security, 
  - managing email and 
  - handling thousnads of web requests from clients per each second
  - allows other computer sto mkake
Request-Response Cycle: Open browser in your DEVICE, type name of WEBSITE, WEB SERVER will send you back website's content.

What are websites and webpages ?
Webpage: A document that displays images, texts, videos, and other content in the web-browser.
Website: A collection of webpages that link together.
How a webpage works ?
Webpage: In most its basic form, a webpage is just a text document.
To work with webpage, we ned to know 3 technologies:
  - HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language): build and structures the contents we see. works by using Markup Tags which describe the content displayed in browser window.
  - CSS (Cascading Style Sheets): controls visual enhancements or decoration (colors and style). enhances HTML and tells them how to display.
  - JavaScript: Programming Language built into the browser and responsible for user interaction (services), data processing, cotrol and action. Power House of Webpage. 
Page Rendering: creation of display elements of webpage for the end-user from code by the Webbrowser. 

What is a webbrowser and how does it work ?
Webbrowser: A software application that we use to browse the World Wide Web (WWW).
REQUEST ---> WEBBROWSER ---> RESPONSE ---> displayed as content in Website.
URL ( Uniform Resource Locator ): Web Address entered in addressbar of Webbrowser and it contains:
  - Protocol or HTTP
  - Domain name (Name of website)
  - file path
HTTP (Hyper Text Transmission Protocol): A protocol that is used for communication of browser and server when we make a request using URL
Web browser --- HTTP Request --> Web Server <=> DataBase
Web browser <-- HTTP Request --- Web Server <=> DataBase

Web Hosting:
A service where we place our websites and files on the hosting company's webserver using which developers can lauch webites to the Inernet.
Types of Web Hosting for our Websites and web applications:
1. Shared Hosting
2. Virtual private Hosting
3. Dedicatd Hosting
4. Cloud Hosting

Shared Hosting: 
This is cheapest hosting. We pay for a location on a webserver contaning many web hosting accounts with shared hosting. It means we also share processing power, memory and bandwidth with other websites that might slow our performance. Shared hosting is suitable for:
  - small websites with samll no. of visitors, 
  - low cost sand-box practice environment for developers to practice deploying or hosting.
  - free shared hosting offered by some company with limitations or advertisements

Virtual Private Hosting (VPS):
This is used for sites with more considerable demand and more expensive than Shard Hosting. 
VPS is a virtual server with dedicated CPU, memory and bandwidth resources.
It will be running on a hardware server with other VPS instances but as the resources are fixed per VPN instance, our website will be unlikely to be imapcted by the performance of other VPN instances. 

Dedicated Hosting:
A dedicated physical hardware server is dedicated to us and our website only and expensive than VPS hosting. All hardware, CPU, memory and bandwidth resources are ours to use. 

Cloud Hosting:
A website will be run in Cloud environment which expands across multiple physical and virtual servers.
if a physical or a virtual server fails, our website will run on a different srver and stay online. Main advantage is no limitation, we can use as many resources as we need without hardware limitations. However, we pay based on resource use. Higher Cost, But Scalable.
